In Google Translate, I typed the word “Follower”.
And it gave me two different answers.
In Tamil.
It said, “Pinpatrubhavargal”, “Pinthodarbhavargal”.
Do you see the difference?
One is, you catch the back and get dragged
along…
The other is, you see somebody going ahead
of you, you like what they are doing, and
you consciously go behind them.
“Pinthodarvadhu” is better, I guess.
Around ten days ago, we watched a video where
I saw somebody called Sumitra Palanisamy tell
us about leading versus being a boss.
Sumitra asked me, “I am still searching
for a leader.
I have seen many bosses.. but how do I find
a leader?”
I want to turn that question back at her.
I want to ask her — Have you been a good
follower?
You keep asking for a leader…
Have you been a good follower?
I think it was Vivekananda...
Swami Vivekananda… who said: He who wants
to lead, or command, must know how to obey.
I think we should do a Quotidian exclusively
on this matter.
What are the qualities that represent that
ideal second-in-command?
That ideal person who serves a leader.
That idea follower.
Let’s see.
More than a year ago, in Quotidian 078, I
talked about a book.
A special book, I said.
The Adventures of Johnny Bunko.
And I told you, please DON’T READ IT!
My assumption, and I think it is correct,
you must have SURELY READ IT!
For, only when you say such stuff, the curiosity
is piqued!
Agree?
I am sure you have read the book.
I am going to point to one particular incident
in the book where Bunko gets an amazing idea.
And Bunko works for somebody called Lakshmi.
And instead of going and reporting it, that
amazing idea, to Lakshmi, he says, “No,
No, No, She’ll just slow us down.
This is so awesome, I’m going directly to
the CEO”…
Saying thus, he heads over directly to Lakshmi’s
boss.
At this point, the author teaches us two really
beautiful lessons.
He goes over to Lakshmi’s boss.
And says, “Hello boss, my name is Johnny
Bunko.
I’m with the Special Projects Team of Lakshmi’s.
We are researching on ideas for new shoes.
I’ve got some seriously amazing idea, I
want to propose that to you directly”.
Look at how beautiful the lesson is, here.
Daniel Pink blesses us with this:- The boss
— look at his instant reaction.
Look at the first two questions that that
boss asks Johnny Bunko.
Question Number 1:- Does Lakshmi know you’re
here?
Question Number 2:- Who are you?
What was your name again?
I don’t even know you!
Is this the right behaviour?
Should the CEO have done something else?
What else happens in this story..?
All that is a story for another day.
But, what am I trying to underline here?
I am trying to say, there is protocol.
Bypassing your immediate boss to get the spotlight
on yourself is probably not the right thing
to do.
This happened just ten days ago, in my classroom.
At the Zoho School of Business, we were having
an open discussion.
One student, Aryan by name, was telling us
an idea that another student, called Mehnaaz,
had stolen from him and supposedly posed as
her own!
What should we do?
Should we remain silent?
Should we confront Mehnaaz?
Should we poison Mehnaaz with further toxic
wrong ideas so that she gets a bad name?
Should I publicly tell all my teammates about
it?
Should I go tell the boss?
Were some of the various scenarios we discussed
in class.
Each scenario, we shot down, we discussed
why it was wrong, probably that’s a Quotidian
for another day.
But, while we were debating about it, we dwelt
on whether it was a good idea to go to the
boss and say, “That was actually my idea.
it was stolen by Mehnaaz”…
Was that going to be useful?
Beneficial?
This was the final analysis we reached, on
that topic.
Going and telling the boss that Mehnaaz stole
my idea might actually irritate the boss.
Might actually make the boss wonder, “Hey,
if you are going to be upset when ideas are
stolen from you, you are going to be upset
with ME!
Because, every boss or leader, by default,
steals ideas from those under them.
Do they decorate it even further after stealing
those ideas?
Do they copy it verbatim and claim it as their
own?
Do they brainstorm on it further and embellish
it while giving you due credit?
Those are the points of difference, but this
is the way work gets done in an environment
at work.
Basically, you will be given work, the output
will be taken upwards, to the big bosses,
and it will usually be the senior manager
who will project it as the work that he has
done with the help of his team.
So, if you are going to get angry because
a colleague copied from you, then, “Hey,
I am going to do that same to you next!
How are you going to work with it?
You seem to be sensitive!”
That is another problem that will come up
soon.
This book, we have seen earlier too — Enchantment
by Guy Kawasaki.
In this Enchantment book, how to enchant your
customers, how to enchant your visitors, how
to enchant your employees, and it goes on
and on..
One chapter stands out: How to enchant your
boss!
He gives four beautiful lessons — How to
enchant your boss.
Some of them we have seen already.
Anyway, I will go through each of them quickly.
Lesson Number One — he says, You have to
make her look good.
Your boss, your manager, they should feel
that they are being positioned better because
they have you in their team.
They have you in their team, and they are
getting a good name because of that!
You are making them feel better, work better,
shine better, look better.
Then, if you make your boss look good, your
boss will make you look good.
Don’t mistake this as politics.
Guy Kawasaki reminds us too.
Don’t take me wrong.
This is the way work gets done!
You have to make your boss look good.
Lesson Number Two — a little controversial
again — he says, Drop everything else you
are doing and do what your boss says.
Don’t second guess them.
If you approach it logically, the boss knows
you are working on something.
And, if you are finished doing it, they know
that you will go to them and do the next thing,
ask for the next thing.
When that is the situation, then, if your
boss comes to you with work, they know that
you are busy with something.
They are coming to you because they have something
more important that they want you to work
on.
Don’t go about asking if this is really
important, whether it needs to get done immediately,
etc.
Just drop everything else you are doing, and
start doing it.
The Third Tip or Advice he gives is, You have
to underpromise and overdeliver.
We have seen this earlier too.
If you are 120 percent sure that you will
get something done in 80 percent of the time
that you are promising, then that is a good
thumbrule, he says.
If it will take about five days, say that
it will take about seven days, and earn their
respect and trust first.
Again, is he asking us to LIE?
NO!
Unknown, unexpected troubles are going to
come.
Instead of foisting those unexpected troubles
on to your boss just like that, take that
buffer yourself.
You be the buffer.
You add that adjustment and ensure you deliver
on or before time.
And, finally, this is one more that we have
seen earlier too, he says, Expose your work.
What is your work, what is its prototype,
what are its smaller versions, be transparent
about all this.
Like your work is encased in glass.
Make it immediately evident about the current
state of the work.
So, that he can give, she can give, early
feedback and guide you along the way.
That is when they will not start doing it
in parallel.
After giving you a job, wondering how it is
going to come, and when, if you don’t want
them to go right ahead and do a Plan B Backup
work by themselves, you need to do these four
things.
See, if you enter the world of chess, every
employee, they can’t be blamed for looking
at themselves as a pawn.
You are sending me to the battlefield.
And, you are banning me from retreating ever
in this battlefield.
You are forcing me to only move forward..
I don’t want to fight.
Every one of them is more powerful than me.
If the pawn starts thinking along these lines…?
Or, if it starts thinking, “You want me
to move to that location, but I don’t want
to!”, will it be practical?
Most of the time a pawn movement is for material
loss.
That is, most chess players, when making a
pawn move, think, “If I sacrifice this pawn,
I will get a positional advantage, I will
get a strategic advantage.”
They don’t make a pawn move to attack or
capture something.
Typically they make it to sacrifice the pawn.
That pawn is probably not wise enough.
“Look at me, poor me,” it might say, “I
am being moved ahead like the sacrificial
goat”.
But, point of view matters.
If only the pawn had the big picture view
of the chess player, the tall view of the
king, or the queen, remember, the pawn is
the smallest or shortest piece on the chessboard.
The viewpoint itself is different.
If the pawn had the big picture view, it will
probably understand “I am part of a larger
community”.
It is like a beehive or an anthill.
One ant doesn’t matter.
If each ant starts thinking for itself, there’s
going to be trouble.
It has to work like a single organism.
Why do they call it ‘organisation’?
It is a single unit.
A single entity.
And, finally, there is that beautiful reward.
A reward directly from God!
If the pawn advances, if it follows the rules,
if it progresses, of course the pawn gets
to be promoted.
To queen!
The most powerful piece on the chessboard!
Is it not!
Talking about that book, I want to add a closing
thought here.
If you take a look at the table of contents
of that book, the eleventh chapter is “How
to enchant your boss”.
Chapter 11!
In the US Law, in business law, Chapter 11
is all about insolvency, bankruptcy!
So, there is this thing, the morality, the
ethics.
You can’t be bankrupt about that.
You can’t get away with “My boss told
me, so I dropped everything else and started
doing what he told me to”.
I would then bring to your mind one more Quotidian
we did pretty recently.
Quotidian 373.
I hope you remember.
That knife to the chest.
There are ethics.
There are morals.
Only beyond all that comes the tenet of following
what your boss asks you to!
Keep that in mind, and be a good follower.
We will see you later.
Two days from now, that is!
Thank you!